Broadway theatre - Wikipedia Jump to content From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Type of theatre in New York City This article is about the type of theatre. For other uses, see Broadway Theatre . From right to left: the John Golden Theatre , Bernard B. Jacobs Theatre , Gerald Schoenfeld Theatre , and Booth Theatre on West 45th Street in Manhattan 's Theater District Broadway theatre , [ nb 1 ] or Broadway , is a theatre genre that consists of the theatrical performances presented in 41 professional theaters , each with 500 or more seats, in the Theater District and Lincoln Center along Broadway , in Midtown Manhattan , New York City. [ 1 ] [ 2 ] Broadway and London 's West End together represent the highest commercial level of live theater in the English-speaking world . [ 3 ] While the Broadway thoroughfare is eponymous with the district, it is closely identified with Times Square . Only three theaters are located on Broadway itself: the Broadway Theatre , Palace Theatre , and Winter Garden Theatre . The rest are located on the numbered cross streets, extending from the Nederlander Theatre one block south of Times Square on West 41st Street, north along either side of Broadway to 53rd Street , and Vivian Beaumont Theater , at Lincoln Center on West 65th Street. While exceptions exist, [ which? ] the term "Broadway theatre" is used predominantly to describe venues with seating capacities of at least 500 people. Smaller theaters in New York City are referred to as off-Broadway , regardless of location, while very small venues with fewer than 100 seats are called off-off-Broadway , a term that can also apply to non-commercial, avant-garde , or productions held outside of traditional theater venues. [ 4 ] The Theater District is an internationally prominent tourist attraction in New York City . According to The Broadway League , shows on Broadway sold tickets worth about US$1.54 billion in the 2022–2023 season, repeating the feat the 2023–2024 season. About 12.3 million people attended per season. [ 5 ] Most Broadway shows are musicals . Historian Martin Shefter argues that "Broadway musicals, culminating in the productions of Rodgers and Hammerstein , became enormously influential forms of American popular culture " and contributed to making New York City the cultural capital of the world . [ 6 ] The Tony Awards presented annually by the American Theatre Wing and The Broadway League [ 7 ] [ 8 ] recognize excellence in live Broadway theatre and are the American theatre industry's highest honor. History [ edit ] Early theater in New York [ edit ] The interior of Park Theatre , built in 1798 New York City's first significant theatre was established in the mid-18th century, around 1750, when actor-managers Walter Murray and Thomas Kean established a resident theatre company at the Theatre on Nassau Street in Lower Manhattan , which held about 280 people. They presented William Shakespeare 's plays and ballad operas such as The Beggar's Opera . [ 9 ] In 1752, William Hallam sent a company of twelve actors from Britain to the colonies with his brother Lewis as their manager. They established a theatre in Williamsburg, Virginia , and opened with The Merchant of Venice and The Anatomist . The company moved to New York in 1753, performing ballad operas and ballad-farces like Damon and Phillida . During the Revolutionary War , theatre was suspended in New York City. But after the war's end, theatre resumed in 1798, when the 2,000-seat Park Theatre was built on Chatham Street on present-day Park Row . [ 9 ] A second major theatre, Bowery Theatre , opened in 1826, [ 10 ] followed by others. By the 1840s, P.T. Barnum was operating an entertainment complex in Lower Manhattan. In 1829, at Broadway and Prince Street, Niblo's Garden opened and soon became one of New York's premier nightspots. The 3,000-seat theatre presented all sorts of musical and non-musical entertainments. In 1844, Palmo's Opera House opened and presented opera for only fo